let's go to Gerson Gerson Basin he's a
former Israeli negotiator was involved
in talks with Hamas he joins us from
West Jerusalem thank you for your time
Mr Baskin are you hopeful at all about a
ceasefire deal at this point
particularly now that Hamas are sending
a delegation to Cairo I mean a few days
ago that seemed like that was a
no-go it doesn't seem like a whole lot
of reasons for optimism at this point um
the Israelis submitted a security plan
to the Egyptian and after back and forth
with the Egyptians the Egyptians said
that they would give it to Hamas but I
understand from Egyptian sources that
there's a very small chance that the
Hamas will agree to the Israeli security
plan which is mostly focused on the
Philadelphia CA the 14 kilometer Road um
border road of Gaza and Egypt this is
one of the sticking points one of the
many sticking points between Israel and
Hamas I really think that uh since
there's an urgency to and this war and
since it seems quite clear that Mr nany
is the reason why we're not able to
reach an agreement hamash should
probably consider a different strategy
than the one they've been using now and
that's by putting down on the table an
agreement that would appeal to the
Israeli public to put pressure on the
Israeli Prime Minister because it seems
like the negotiators on the Israeli side
the military and the intelligence and
Israel are in favor of reaching a speedy
agreement and yet it's Mr Natan who
seems to be holding off and telling
people that there is no deal on the
table right so if Hamas did put a deal
on the table and made it a lot clearer I
think we would have a lot more support
in Israel in society to push the prime
minister right if they were if they were
the ones pushing forward uh yeah I mean
that's a good point I mean in terms of
Israel compromising at all can you see
them uh compromising at all when it
comes to the issue of the netsim and
Philadelphia Corridor in
Gaza the Army in the Ence say that we
that Israel can Israel can withdraw from
Gaza Israel can end the war that the uh
issue of the Philadelphia Cora needs to
be dealt with on the Egyptian side of
the Border perhaps with American
oversight to make sure that the border
is in fact sealed there needs to be an
acceptable A Palestinian control of the
Rafa Crossing perhaps with International
supervision there was an agreement like
that signed back in
2005 and we can go and revisit that
agreement and see how that could be made
workable and this war has to end there
are too many people getting killed the
109 Israeli hostages are getting killed
in Gaza and we have a a a need to end
this and bring them home and there is a
majority in Israel according to the
weekend polls who want a deal to be done
and they want new elections in Israel
and they want a commission of inquiry
nany is gaining a little bit in the
polls of his base but the majority of
Israelis are not with him and do want
this war to end what about Egypt I mean
how much influence have they
uh got over Israel given Israel is
currently violating a long-standing
peace deal by having its TR troops on
the Philadelphia
Corridor I think the the most
influential party in Israel is obviously
the United States and not Egypt or Qatar
the Egyptians and the qataris need to
use their influence over Hamas while the
Americans need to use their influence
over Israel and of course they have the
Doomsday leverage which is notifying the
Israelis that the United States of
America will no longer fuel the war in
Gaza I believe that the US will tell
Israel that we have your back if you're
on tax if his BAH tax but we're not
going to provide bombs anymore for
dropping on Gaza and this would make
Israel consider much more seriously the
need to end this war quickly which is
what has to happen and this is what the
United States should do okay thank you
for your time gersan Baskin former
Israeli negotiator involved in uh talks
with Hamas in the past uh speaking to us
there from West
Jerusalem thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler